GraphQL Docs for Parse Server 3.10.0 (#688)
ParsePlatform/Docs: _includes/graphql/queries.md

# Queries

## Get

> For each class of your application's schema, Parse Server automatically generates a custom query for getting this class' objects through the GraphQL API.

Reviewer: Not sure it needs to specifically say 'GraphQL API' all the way through the guide...
```suggestion
For each class of your application's schema, Parse Server automatically generates a custom query for getting this class' objects through the API.
```
If you agree perhaps it should be changed throughout the guide also?

            "score": 13,
            "cheatMode": true
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjI=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjNmWjBoQVJDVU0=",
            "playerName": "Steve Jordan",
            "score": 134,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Where

You can use the `where` argument to add constraints to a class find query. See the example below:

```js
// Header
{
  "X-Parse-Application-Id": "APPLICATION_ID",
  "X-Parse-Master-Key": "MASTER_KEY" // (optional)
}
```
```graphql
# GraphQL
query getSomeGameScores {
  gameScores(where: { 
  	score: { greaterThan: 158 }
  }) {
    count
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        id
        playerName
        score
        cheatMode
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "gameScores": {
      "count": 1,
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjA=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjZtdGlNcmtXNnY=",
            "playerName": "Sean Plott",
            "score": 1337,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

> **Note:** Visit your **GraphQL Playground** if you want to know all available constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** Visit your GraphQL Playground if you want to know all available constraints.
```

### Order

You can use the `order` argument to select in which order the results should show up in a class find query. See the example below:

```js
// Header
{
  "X-Parse-Application-Id": "APPLICATION_ID",
  "X-Parse-Master-Key": "MASTER_KEY" // (optional)
}
```
```graphql
# GraphQL
query getSomeGameScores {
  gameScores(
  	where: { 
  	  cheatMode: { equalTo: false }
  	},
  	order: score_ASC
  ) {
    count
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        id
        playerName
        score
        cheatMode
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "gameScores": {
      "count": 2,
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjA=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjNmWjBoQVJDVU0=",
            "playerName": "Steve Jordan",
            "score": 134,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjE=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjZtdGlNcmtXNnY=",
            "playerName": "Sean Plott",
            "score": 1337,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Pagination

> [Relay Node Cursor](https://facebook.github.io/relay/graphql/connections.htm) provide a simple way to get an efficient and easy to use pagination into your app.

Reviewer 2: > [Relay Node Cursor](https://facebook.github.io/relay/graphql/connections.htm) provides a simple way to get efficient and easy to use pagination.

Reviewer: Done

> With Relay you can build flexible pagination based on cursors here it's the main effect of each argument:

Reviewer 2: > With Relay you can build flexible pagination based on cursors. Here is the main effect of each argument:

Reviewer: Done but went with a comma

* `skip`: A regular skip to exlude some results
* `first`: Similar as a `limit` parameter but ask server to start from first result, ex: `first: 10` retreive first 10 results
* `last`: Retrieve the last results, ex: `last: 10` retrieve the 10 last resutls
* `before`: Get objects before the provided `Cursor`, in combinatin with `after` it's allow you to build inverted pagination
* `after`: Get objects after the provided `Cursor`, in combination with `first` you get a classic pagination similar to `skip & limit`

You can combine multi parameters like: `before & last`, `after & first`

> Assuming we have an old object with`cursor: YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjE` (`cursor` is different of `id`, it's a temporary pagination Id for the query)

Reviewer 2: > You can also combine multi parameters like: `before & last`, `after & first`, assuming you have an existing `cursor`*

> * `cursor` is different to `id`, it is a temporary pagination ID for the query

Reviewer: Done

# Queries

## Get

For each class of your application's schema, Parse Server automatically generates a custom query for getting this class' objects through the API.

For example, if you have a class named `GameScore` in the schema, Parse Server automatically generates a new query called `gameScore`, and you should be able to run the code below in your GraphQL Playground:

```js
// Header
{
  "X-Parse-Application-Id": "APPLICATION_ID",
  "X-Parse-Master-Key": "MASTER_KEY" // (optional)
}
```
```graphql
# GraphQL
query getAGameScore {
  gameScore(id: "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjZtdGlNcmtXNnY=") {
    id
    score
    playerName
    score
    cheatMode
    ACL {
      public {
        read
        write
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "gameScore": {
      "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjZtdGlNcmtXNnY=",
      "score": 1337,
      "playerName": "Sean Plott",
      "cheatMode": false,
      "ACL": {
        "public": {
          "read": true,
          "write": true
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Get with Relay

> With the **Relay** specification you have also the choice to use [GraphQL Fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments) through the `node` GraphQL Query. For a `GameScore` object the following query will do the job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the Relay specification you have also the choice to use [GraphQL Fragments](https://graphql.org/learn/queries/#fragments) through the `node` GraphQL Query. For a `GameScore` object the following query will do the job.
```

query getSomeGameScores {
  gameScores(
  	where: { 
  	  cheatMode: { equalTo: false }
  	},
  	order: score_ASC
  ) {
    count
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        id
        playerName
        score
        cheatMode
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "gameScores": {
      "count": 2,
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjA=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjNmWjBoQVJDVU0=",
            "playerName": "Steve Jordan",
            "score": 134,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        },
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjE=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjZtdGlNcmtXNnY=",
            "playerName": "Sean Plott",
            "score": 1337,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Pagination

[Relay Node Cursor](https://facebook.github.io/relay/graphql/connections.htm) provide a simple way to get an efficient and easy to use pagination into your app.

With Relay you can build flexible pagination based on cursors here it's the main effect of each argument:
* `skip`: A regular skip to exlude some results

> * `first`: Similar as a `limit` parameter but ask server to start from first result, ex: `first: 10` retreive first 10 results

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `first`: Similar as a `limit` parameter but starts from first result, e.g. `first: 10` retrieves the first 10 results
```

> * `last`: Retrieve the last results, ex: `last: 10` retrieve the 10 last resutls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `last`: Retrieve the last results, e.g. `last: 10` retrieves the last 10 results
```

* `before`: Get objects before the provided `Cursor`, in combinatin with `after` it's allow you to build inverted pagination
* `after`: Get objects after the provided `Cursor`, in combination with `first` you get a classic pagination similar to `skip & limit`

> You can combine multi parameters like: `before & last`, `after & first`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can combine multiple parameters like: `before & last`, `after & first`
```

```js
// Header
{
  "X-Parse-Application-Id": "APPLICATION_ID",
  "X-Parse-Master-Key": "MASTER_KEY" // (optional)
}
```
```graphql
# GraphQL
query getSomeGameScores {
  gameScores(after: "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjE") {
    pageInfo {
      hasNextPage
      hasPreviousPage
      startCursor
      endCursor
    }
    count
    edges {
      cursor
      node {
        id
        playerName
        score
        cheatMode
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "gameScores": {
      "pageInfo": {
        "hasNextPage": false,
        "hasPreviousPage": true,
        "startCursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjI=",
        "endCursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjI="
      },
      "count": 3,
      "edges": [
        {
          "cursor": "YXJyYXljb25uZWN0aW9uOjI=",
          "node": {
            "id": "R2FtZVNjb3JlOjNmWjBoQVJDVU0=",
            "playerName": "Steve Jordan",
            "score": 134,
            "cheatMode": false
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

**Note**: `count` is a global count for available results. It's not the number of edges returned by the request.

## Nested Query

> **Parse GraphQL Server** support nested queries, so you can find object and then execute query on relational child fields. Assuming that we have classes `Country`, `City`, `Company`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL API supports nested queries, so you can find object and then execute query on relational child fields. Assuming that we have classes `Country`, `City`, `Company`.
```

```js
// Header
{
  "X-Parse-Application-Id": "APPLICATION_ID",
  "X-Parse-Master-Key": "MASTER_KEY" // (optional)
}
```

```graphql
query aNestedQuery {
  countries(where: { 
    name: { matchesRegex: "Ma", options: "i" }
  }) {
    edges {
      node {
        name
        cities(where: { 
          name: { matchesRegex: "pha", options: "i"} 
        }) {
          edges {
            node {
              name
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
```js
// Response
{
  "data": {
    "countries": {
      "edges": [
        {
          "node": {
            "name": "Mars",
            "cities": {
              "edges": [
                {
                  "node": {
                    "name": "Alpha"
                  }
                }
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

## Relational Query

> **Parse GraphQL Server** support complex parent relational queries. It means that all `Pointer` and `Relation` field on your **Parse** database can be used easly trough the api to query some (complex) relational data. Let's take a look to the power of this feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL API supports complex parent relational queries. It means that all `Pointer` and `Relation` fields on your database can be used easily throughout the API to query complex relational data. Let's take a look at the power of this feature.
```

### Parent Relation Style

> Assuming that we have a `Country` class, `City` class, `Street` class, `House` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming that we have a `Country` class, `City` class, `Street` class and `House` class.
```

`Country` have a `cities` `Relation` field.
`City` have a `streets` `Relation` field.
`Street` have a `houses` `Relation` field.

> Let's build a query matching a countries that contains at least a city with more than 20000 peoples and that contain at least a street that match `/rue/i` regex and this street should contain at least an house with a name equal to `Parse Members`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's build a query matching countries that contain at least one city with more than 20,000 people and that contain at least one street that matches `/rue/i` regex and this street should contain at least one house with a name equal to `Parse Members`.
```

> A really deep query but **Parse Server** with **GraphQL** can handle this type of request easly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL API can handle this type of complex relational query with ease.
```
